date:: [[Mar 5th, 2024]]
issn:: 0013-936X
issue:: 9
extra:: Publisher: American Chemical Society
doi:: 10.1021/acs.est.3c08849
title:: @“微塑料体”——捕捉微塑料真实世界生态的整体视角
pages:: 4060-4069
volume:: 58
item-type:: [[journalArticle]]
access-date:: 2025-02-24T15:33:18Z
original-title:: “微塑料体”——捕捉微塑料真实世界生态的整体视角
language:: en
url:: https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.est.3c08849
publication-title:: Environmental Science & Technology
journal-abbreviation:: Environ. Sci. Technol.
authors:: [[Changchao Li]], [[Xinyu Li]], [[Michael S. Bank]], [[Tao Dong]], [[James Kar-Hei Fang]], [[Frederic D. L. Leusch]], [[Matthias C. Rillig]], [[Jie Wang]], [[Lei Wang]], [[Yu Xia]], [[Elvis Genbo Xu]], [[Yuyi Yang]], [[Chao Zhang]], [[Dong Zhu]], [[Jian Liu]], [[Ling Jin]]
library-catalog:: ACS Publications
links:: [Local library](zotero://select/library/items/JMSBXTY5), [Web library](https://www.zotero.org/users/14278722/items/JMSBXTY5)

- [[Abstract]]
	- Microplastic pollution, an emerging pollution issue, has become a significant environmental concern globally due to its ubiquitous, persistent, complex, toxic, and ever-increasing nature. As a multifaceted and diverse suite of small plastic particles with different physicochemical properties and associated matters such as absorbed chemicals and microbes, future research on microplastics will need to comprehensively consider their multidimensional attributes. Here, we introduce a novel, conceptual framework of the “microplastome”, defined as the entirety of various plastic particles (<5 mm), and their associated matters such as chemicals and microbes, found within a sample and its overall environmental and toxicological impacts. As a novel concept, this paper aims to emphasize and call for a collective quantification and characterization of microplastics and for a more holistic understanding regarding the differences, connections, and effects of microplastics in different biotic and abiotic ecosystem compartments. Deriving from this lens, we present our insights and prospective trajectories for characterization, risk assessment, and source apportionment of microplastics. We hope this new paradigm can guide and propel microplastic research toward a more holistic era and contribute to an informed strategy for combating this globally important environmental pollution issue.
- [[Attachments]]
	- [Li et al._2024_The “microplastome” – a holistic perspective to capture the real-world ecology of microplastics.pdf](zotero://select/library/items/FS8L755Z) {{zotero-linked-file "mainbox/Li et al._2024_The “microplastome” – a holistic perspective to capture the real-world ecology of microplastics.pdf"}}